Support typescript precompilation (#1172)
platformatic/platformatic: docs/guides/compiling-typescript-for-deployment.md

# Compiling Typescript for Deployment

[Platformatic Service](/reference/service/introduction.md) provides automatic TypeScript compilation during the startup

> of your Node.js server. While this provides amazing developer experience, in production adds additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of your Node.js server. While this provides an amazing developer experience, in production it adds additional
```

start time and it requires more resources. In this guide, we show how to compile your TypeScript
source files before shipping to a server.

## Setup

The following is supported by all Platformatic applications, as they are all based on the same [plugin system](/reference/service/plugin.md).
If you have generated your application using `npx create-platformatic@latest`, you will have a similar section in your config file:

```json
{
  ...
  "plugins": {
    "paths": [{
      "path": "plugins",
      "encapsulate": false
    }, "routes"],
    "typescript": "{PLT_TYPESCRIPT}"
  }
}
```

Note that the `{PLT_TYPESCRIPT}` will be automatically replaced with the `PLT_TYPESCRIPT` environment variable, that is configured in your
`.env` (and `.env.sample`) file:

```
PLT_TYPESCRIPT=true
```

Older Platformatic applications might not have the same layout, if so you can update your settings to match (after updating your dependencies).

## Compiling for deployment

Compiling for deployment is then as easy as running `plt service compile` in that same folder.

> Rememeber to set `PLT_TYPESCRIPT=false` in your enviornment variables in the deployed environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rememeber to set `PLT_TYPESCRIPT=false` in your environment variables in the deployed environments.
```

## Usage with Runtime

If you are building a [Runtime](/reference/runtime/introduction.md)-based application, you will need

> to compile every service independently or with the use of `plt runtime compile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to compile every service independently or use the `plt runtime compile` command.
```

# Compiling Typescript for Deployment

[Platformatic Service](/reference/service/introduction.md) provides automatic TypeScript compilation during the startup
of your Node.js server. While this provides amazing developer experience, in production adds additional
start time and it requires more resources. In this guide, we show how to compile your TypeScript
source files before shipping to a server.

## Setup

The following is supported by all Platformatic applications, as they are all based on the same [plugin system](/reference/service/plugin.md).
If you have generated your application using `npx create-platformatic@latest`, you will have a similar section in your config file:

```json
{
  ...
  "plugins": {
    "paths": [{
      "path": "plugins",
      "encapsulate": false
    }, "routes"],
    "typescript": "{PLT_TYPESCRIPT}"
  }
}
```

> Note that the `{PLT_TYPESCRIPT}` will be automatically replaced with the `PLT_TYPESCRIPT` enviornment variable, that configured in your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the `{PLT_TYPESCRIPT}` will be automatically replaced with the `PLT_TYPESCRIPT` environment variable, that is configured in your
```

`.env` (and `.env.sample`) file:

```
PLT_TYPESCRIPT=true
```

Older Platformatic applications might not have the same layout, and if so you can update your settings to match (after updating your dependencies).

## Compiling for deployment

Compiling for deployment is then as easy as running `plt service compile` in that same folder.

> Rememeber to set `PLT_TYPESCRIPT=false` in your enviornment variables in the deployed enviornments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rememeber to set `PLT_TYPESCRIPT=false` in your enviornment variables in the deployed environments.
```
